# Translation Words (unfoldingWord)

## License Information

**Translation Words (unfoldingWord)** is based on and adapted from: _unfoldingWord® Translation Words_, [unfoldingWord](https://unfoldingword.org/utw), 2022, which is licensed under a [CC BY-SA 4.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode.en).

This markdown version (created `2025-10-16`) is provided under the same license.



--------------------------------

## Baal (id: 26355)

Baal
====

Facts:
------

“Baal” means “lord” or “master” and was the name of the primary false god that was worshiped by the Canaanites.

* There were also local false gods that had “Baal” as part of their names, such as “Baal of Peor.” Sometimes all these gods together are referred to as “the Baals.”
* Some people had names that included the word “Baal” in them.
* The worship of Baal included evil practices such as sacrificing children and using prostitutes.
* At different time periods throughout their history, the Israelites also became deeply involved in Baal worship, following the example of the pagan nations around them.
* During the reign of King Ahab, God’s prophet Elijah set up a test to prove to the people that Baal does not exist and that Yahweh is the only true God. As a result, the prophets of Baal were destroyed and the people started worshiping Yahweh again.

(Translation suggestions: How to Translate Names)

(See also: Ahab, Asherah, Elijah, false god, prostitute, Yahweh)

Bible References:
-----------------

* [1 Kings 16:31](https://ref.ly/1Kgs16:31)
* [1 Samuel 7:3–4](https://ref.ly/1Sam7:3-1Sam7:4)
* [Jeremiah 2:7–8](https://ref.ly/Jer2:7-Jer2:8)
* [Judges 2:11](https://ref.ly/Judg2:11)
* [Numbers 22:41](https://ref.ly/Num22:41)

Examples from the Bible stories:
--------------------------------

* **19:2** Ahab was an evil man who encouraged people to worship a false god named **Baal**.
* **19:6** All the people of the entire kingdom of Israel, including the 450 prophets of **Baal**, came to Mount Carmel. Elijah said to the people, “How long will you keep changing your mind? If Yahweh is God, serve him! If **Baal** is God, serve him!”
* **19:7** Then Elijah said to the prophets of **Baal**, “Kill a bull and prepare it as a sacrifice, but do not light the fire.”
* **19:8** Then the prophets of **Baal** prayed to **Baal**, “Hear us, O **Baal**!”
* **19:12** So the people captured the prophets of **Baal**. Then Elijah took them away from there and killed them.

Word Data:
----------

* Strong’s: H1120, G08960

* **Associated Passages:** NUM 22:41; JDG 2:11; 1KI 16:31; ROM 11:4; 1SA 7:3–1SA 7:4; JER 2:7–JER 2:8
* **Associated Articles:** Ahab (ID: `26296@UWTranslationWords`); Asherim (ID: `26341@Unknown`); Elijah (ID: `26555@UWTranslationWords`); False God (ID: `26586@UWTranslationWords`); Prostitute (ID: `26990@UWTranslationWords`); Yahweh (ID: `27218@UWTranslationWords`)

