# Translation Words (unfoldingWord)

## License Information

**Translation Words (unfoldingWord)** is based on and adapted from: _unfoldingWord® Translation Words_, [unfoldingWord](https://unfoldingword.org/utw), 2022, which is licensed under a [CC BY-SA 4.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode.en).

This markdown version (created `2025-10-16`) is provided under the same license.



--------------------------------

## Captive (id: 26432)

captive, captivate, captivity, catch
====================================

Definition:
-----------

The terms “captive” and “captivity” refer to people who have been captured and forced to live somewhere they do not want to live, such as in a foreign country.

* The Israelites from the kingdom of Judah were held captive in the kingdom of Babylonia for 70 years.
* Captives are often required to work for the people or nation that captured them.
* Daniel and Nehemiah were Israelite captives who worked for the Babylonian king.
* The expression to “take captive” is another way of talking about capturing someone.
* The expression, “carry you away captive” could also be translated as “force you to live as captives” or “take you away to another country as prisoners.”
* In a figurative sense, the apostle Paul tells Christians to “take captive” every thought and make it obedient to Christ.
* He also talks about how a person can be “taken captive” by sin, which means he is “controlled by” sin.

Translation Suggestions
-----------------------

* Depending on the context, to be “held captive” could also be translated by, “not allowed to be free” or “kept in prison” or “forced to live in a foreign country.”
* The expression, “led captive” or “taken captive” could be translated as “captured” or “imprisoned” or “forced to go to a foreign land.”
* The term “captives” could also be translated as “people who were captured” or “enslaved people.”
* Depending on the context, “captivity” could also be translated as “imprisonment” or “exile” or “forced stay in a foreign country.”

(See also: Babylon, exile, prison, seize)

Bible References:
-----------------

* [2 Corinthians 10:5](https://ref.ly/2Cor10:5)
* [Isaiah 20:4](https://ref.ly/Isa20:4)
* [Jeremiah 43:3](https://ref.ly/Jer43:3)
* [Luke 4:18](https://ref.ly/Luke4:18)

Word Data:
----------

* Strong’s: H1123, H1473, H1540, H1546, H1547, H7617, H7622, H7628, H7633, H7686, G01610, G01620, G01630, G01640, G22210

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 14:14; GEN 31:26; GEN 34:29; EXO 12:29; EZR 2:1; EZR 3:8; EZR 8:35; EZR 9:7; NEH 1:2; NEH 1:3; NEH 4:4; NEH 7:6; NEH 8:17; JOB 42:10; ISA 20:4; JER 43:3; OBA 1:11; ZEP 2:7; ZEP 3:20; LUK 4:18; LUK 21:24; ROM 7:23; 2CO 10:5; 2TI 3:6; 2PE 2:12; REV 13:10
* **Associated Articles:** Babylon (ID: `26358@UWTranslationWords`); Exile (ID: `26579@UWTranslationWords`); Seize (ID: `27069@UWTranslationWords`)

