# Translation Words (unfoldingWord)

## License Information

**Translation Words (unfoldingWord)** is based on and adapted from: _unfoldingWord® Translation Words_, [unfoldingWord](https://unfoldingword.org/utw), 2022, which is licensed under a [CC BY-SA 4.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode.en).

This markdown version (created `2025-10-16`) is provided under the same license.



--------------------------------

## Beg (id: 26379)

beg, begging, begged
====================

Definition:
-----------

The term “beg” means to urgently ask someone for something.

* Often people beg or plead when they strongly need something, but don’t know if the other person will give them what they ask for.
* Depending on the context, this term could be translated as “plead” or “urgently ask.”

(See also: plead)

Bible References:
-----------------

Examples from the Bible stories:
--------------------------------

* **10:4** God sent frogs all over Egypt. Pharaoh **begged** Moses to take away the frogs.
* **29:8** “The king called the servant and said, ‘You wicked servant! I forgave your debt because you **begged** me.’”
* **32:7** The demons **begged** Jesus, “Please do not send us out of this region!” There was a herd of pigs feeding on a nearby hill. So, the demons **begged** Jesus, “Please send us into the pigs instead!”
* **32:10** The man who used to have the demons **begged** to go along with Jesus.
* **35:11** His father came out and **begged** him to come and celebrate with them, but he refused.

Word Data:
----------

* Strong’s:

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 20:4; MAT 8:5; MAT 8:31; MAT 8:34; MAT 9:38; MAT 14:36; MAT 18:29; MAT 18:32; MRK 1:40; MRK 5:10; MRK 5:12; MRK 5:17; MRK 5:18; MRK 5:23; MRK 6:56; MRK 7:32; MRK 8:22; MRK 10:46; LUK 5:12; LUK 7:3; LUK 7:4; LUK 8:28; LUK 8:31; LUK 8:32; LUK 8:38; LUK 8:41; LUK 9:38; LUK 9:40; LUK 16:3; LUK 18:35; JHN 9:8; ACT 13:42; ACT 16:15; ACT 16:39; ACT 21:12; ACT 24:4; ACT 25:2; ACT 28:14
* **Associated Articles:** Plead (ID: `26966@UWTranslationWords`)

