# Translation Words (unfoldingWord)

## License Information

**Translation Words (unfoldingWord)** is based on and adapted from: _unfoldingWord® Translation Words_, [unfoldingWord](https://unfoldingword.org/utw), 2022, which is licensed under a [CC BY-SA 4.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode.en).

This markdown version (created `2025-10-16`) is provided under the same license.



--------------------------------

## Betray (id: 26391)

betray, betrayer
================

Definition:
-----------

The term “betray” means to act in a way that deceives and harms someone. A “betrayer” is a person who betrays a friend who was trusting him.

* Judas was “the betrayer” because he told the Jewish leaders how to capture Jesus.
* The betrayal by Judas was especially evil because he was an apostle of Jesus who received money in exchange for giving the Jewish leaders information that would result in Jesus’ unjust death.

Translation Suggestions:
------------------------

* Depending on the context, the term “betray” could be translated as “deceive and cause harm to” or “turn over to the enemy” or “treat treacherously.”
* The term “betrayer” could be translated as “person who betrays” or “double dealer” or “traitor.”

(See also: Judas Iscariot, Jewish leaders, apostle)

Bible References:
-----------------

* [Acts 7:52](https://ref.ly/Acts7:52)
* [John 6:64](https://ref.ly/John6:64)
* [John 13:22](https://ref.ly/John13:22)
* [Matthew 10:4](https://ref.ly/Matt10:4)
* [Matthew 26:22](https://ref.ly/Matt26:22)

Examples from the Bible stories:
--------------------------------

* **21:11** Other prophets foretold that those who killed the Messiah would gamble for his clothes and he would be **betrayed** by a friend. The prophet Zechariah foretold that the friend would be paid thirty silver coins as payment for **betraying** the Messiah.
* **38:2** After Jesus and the disciples arrived in Jerusalem, Judas went to the Jewish leaders and offered to **betray** Jesus to them in exchange for money.
* **38:3** The Jewish leaders, led by the high priest, paid Judas thirty silver coins to **betray** Jesus.
* **38:6** Then Jesus said to the disciples, “One of you will **betray** me.” \* \* **38:6** Jesus said, “The person to whom I give this piece of bread is the **betrayer**.”
* **38:13** When he returned the third time, Jesus said, “Wake up! My **betrayer** is here.”
* **38:14** Then Jesus said, “Judas, do you **betray** me with a kiss?”
* **39:8** Meanwhile, Judas, the **betrayer**, saw that the Jewish leaders had condemned Jesus to die. He became full of sorrow and went away and killed himself.

Word Data:
----------

* Strong’s: H7411, G38600, G42730

* **Associated Passages:** MAT 10:4; MAT 24:10; MAT 26:15; MAT 26:16; MAT 26:21; MAT 26:22; MAT 26:23; MAT 26:24; MAT 26:25; MAT 26:45; MAT 26:46; MAT 26:48; MAT 27:3; MAT 27:4; MRK 3:19; MRK 14:10; MRK 14:11; MRK 14:18; MRK 14:21; MRK 14:41; MRK 14:42; MRK 14:44; LUK 6:16; JHN 6:64; JHN 6:71; JHN 12:4; JHN 13:2; JHN 13:11; JHN 13:21; JHN 13:22; JHN 18:2; JHN 18:5; JHN 21:20; ACT 7:52; 1CO 11:23; 2TI 3:4
* **Associated Articles:** Apostle (ID: `26324@UWTranslationWords`); Jewish Leaders (ID: `26761@UWTranslationWords`); Judas Iscariot (ID: `26784@UWTranslationWords`)

