# Translation Words (unfoldingWord)

## License Information

**Translation Words (unfoldingWord)** is based on and adapted from: _unfoldingWord® Translation Words_, [unfoldingWord](https://unfoldingword.org/utw), 2022, which is licensed under a [CC BY-SA 4.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode.en).

This markdown version (created `2025-10-16`) is provided under the same license.



--------------------------------

## Consecrate (id: 26467)

consecrate, consecrated, consecration
=====================================

Definition:
-----------

To consecrate means to dedicate something or someone to serve God. The person or object that is consecrated is considered holy and set apart for God.

* The meaning of this term is similar to “sanctify” or to “make holy,” but with the added meaning of formally setting apart someone for service to God.
* Things that were consecrated to God included animals to be sacrificed, the altar of burnt offering, and the tabernacle.
* People who were consecrated to God included the priests, the people of Israel, and the oldest male child.
* Sometimes the word “consecrate” has a meaning that is similar to “purify,” especially when it pertains to preparing people or things for God’s service so that they will be cleansed and acceptable to him.

Translation Suggestions:
------------------------

* Ways to translate “consecrate” could include, “set apart for God’s service” or “purify for service to God.”
* Also consider how the terms “holy” and “sanctify” are translated.

(See also: holy, pure, sanctify)

Bible References:
-----------------

* [1 Timothy 4:3–5](https://ref.ly/1Tim4:3-1Tim4:5)
* [2 Chronicles 13:8–9](https://ref.ly/2Chr13:8-2Chr13:9)
* [Ezekiel 44:19](https://ref.ly/Ezek44:19)

Word Data:
----------

* Strong’s: H2763, H3027, H4390, H4394, H5144, H5145, H6942, H6944, G14570, G50480

* **Associated Passages:** EXO 28:38; EXO 29:22; EXO 29:26; EXO 29:27; EXO 29:31; EXO 29:34; EZR 3:5; NEH 3:1; NEH 12:47; NEH 13:22; EZK 44:19; ZEP 1:7; 1TI 4:3–1TI 4:5; 2CH 13:8–2CH 13:9
* **Associated Articles:** Holy (ID: `26698@UWTranslationWords`); Purify (ID: `27000@Unknown`); Sanctify (ID: `27053@UWTranslationWords`)

