# Translation Words (unfoldingWord)

## License Information

**Translation Words (unfoldingWord)** is based on and adapted from: _unfoldingWord® Translation Words_, [unfoldingWord](https://unfoldingword.org/utw), 2022, which is licensed under a [CC BY-SA 4.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode.en).

This markdown version (created `2025-10-16`) is provided under the same license.



--------------------------------

## Christian (id: 26446)

Christian
=========

Definition:
-----------

Some time after Jesus went back to heaven, people made up the name “Christian” which means “follower of Christ.”

* It was in the city of Antioch where Jesus’ followers were first called “Christians.”
* A Christian is a person who believes that Jesus is the Son of God, and who trusts Jesus to save him from his sins.
* In our modern times, often the term “Christian” is used for someone who identifies with the Christian religion, but who is not really following Jesus. This is not the meaning of “Christian” in the Bible.
* Because the term “Christian” in the Bible always refers to someone who truly believes in Jesus, a Christian is also called a “believer.”

Translation Suggestions:
------------------------

* This term could be translated as “Christ\-follower” or “follower of Christ” or perhaps something like, “Christ\-person.”
* Make sure that the translation of this term is translated differently than terms used for disciple or apostle.
* Be careful to translate this term with a word that can refer to everyone who believes in Jesus, not just certain groups.
* Also consider how this term is translated in a Bible translation in a local or national language. (See: How to Translate Unknowns)

(See also: Antioch, Christ, church, disciple, believe, Jesus, Son of God)

Bible References:
-----------------

* [1 Corinthians 6:7–8](https://ref.ly/1Cor6:7-1Cor6:8)
* [1 Peter 4:16](https://ref.ly/1Pet4:16)
* [Acts 11:26](https://ref.ly/Acts11:26)
* [Acts 26:28](https://ref.ly/Acts26:28)

Examples from the Bible stories:
--------------------------------

* **46:9** It was at Antioch that believers in Jesus were first called “**Christians**.”
* **47:14** Paul and other **Christian** leaders traveled to many cities, preaching and teaching people the good news about Jesus.
* **49:15** If you believe in Jesus and what he has done for you, you are a **Christian**!
* **49:16** If you are a **Christian**, God has forgiven your sins because of what Jesus did.
* **49:17** Even though you are a **Christian**, you will still be tempted to sin.
* **50:3** Before he returned to heaven, Jesus told **Christians** to proclaim the good news to people who have never heard it.
* **50:11** When Jesus returns, every **Christian** who has died will rise from the dead and meet him in the sky.

Word Data:
----------

* Strong’s: G55460

* **Associated Passages:** ACT 11:26; ACT 26:28; 1PE 4:16; 1CO 6:7–1CO 6:8
* **Associated Articles:** Antioch (ID: `26322@UWTranslationWords`); Believe (ID: `26381@UWTranslationWords`); Christ (ID: `26445@UWTranslationWords`); Church (ID: `26448@UWTranslationWords`); Disciple (ID: `26527@UWTranslationWords`); Jesus (ID: `26758@UWTranslationWords`); Son of God (ID: `27108@UWTranslationWords`)

