# Translation Words (unfoldingWord)

## License Information

**Translation Words (unfoldingWord)** is based on and adapted from: _unfoldingWord® Translation Words_, [unfoldingWord](https://unfoldingword.org/utw), 2022, which is licensed under a [CC BY-SA 4.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode.en).

This markdown version (created `2025-10-16`) is provided under the same license.



--------------------------------

## Elijah (id: 26555)

Elijah
======

Facts:
------

Elijah was one of the most important prophets of Yahweh. Elijah prophesied during the reigns of several kings of Israel and Judah, including King Ahab.

* God did many miracles through Elijah, including raising a dead boy back to life.
* Elijah rebuked King Ahab for worshiping the false god Baal.
* He challenged the prophets of Baal to a test that proved that Yahweh is the only true God.
* At the end of Elijah’s life, God miraculously took him up to heaven while he was still alive.
* Hundreds of years later, Elijah, along with Moses, appeared with Jesus on a mountain, and they talked together about Jesus’ coming suffering and death in Jerusalem.

(Translation suggestions: How to Translate Names)

(See also: miracle, prophet, Yahweh)

Bible References:
-----------------

* [1 Kings 17:1](https://ref.ly/1Kgs17:1)
* [2 Kings 1:3–4](https://ref.ly/2Kgs1:3-2Kgs1:4)
* [James 5:16–18](https://ref.ly/Jas5:16-Jas5:18)
* [John 1:19–21](https://ref.ly/John1:19-John1:21)
* [John 1:24–25](https://ref.ly/John1:24-John1:25)
* [Mark 9:5](https://ref.ly/Mark9:5)

Examples from the Bible stories:
--------------------------------

* **19:2** **Elijah** was a prophet when Ahab was king over the kingdom of Israel.
* **19:2** **Elijah** said to Ahab, “There will be no rain or dew in the kingdom of Israel until I say so.”
* **19:3** God told **Elijah** to go to a stream in the wilderness to hide from Ahab who wanted to kill him. Every morning and every evening, birds would bring him bread and meat.
* **19:4** But they took care of **Elijah**, and God provided for them so that their flour jar and their bottle of oil never became empty.
* **19:5** After three and a half years, God told **Elijah** to return to the kingdom of Israel and speak with Ahab because he was going to send rain again.
* **19:7** Then **Elijah** said to the prophets of Baal, “Kill a bull and prepare it as a sacrifice, but do not light the fire.”
* **19:12** Then **Elijah** said, “Do not let any of the prophets of Baal escape!”
* **36:3** Then Moses and the prophet **Elijah** appeared. These men had lived hundreds of years before this. They talked with Jesus about his death that would soon happen in Jerusalem.

Word Data:
----------

* Strong’s: H0452, G22430

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 17:1; EZR 10:21; EZR 10:26; MAT 11:14; MAT 16:14; MAT 17:3; MAT 17:4; MAT 17:10; MAT 17:11; MAT 17:12; MAT 27:47; MAT 27:49; MRK 6:15; MRK 8:28; MRK 9:4; MRK 9:5; MRK 9:11; MRK 9:12; MRK 9:13; MRK 15:35; MRK 15:36; LUK 1:17; LUK 4:25; LUK 4:26; LUK 9:8; LUK 9:19; LUK 9:30; LUK 9:33; JHN 1:21; JHN 1:25; ROM 11:2; JAS 5:17; 2KI 1:3–2KI 1:4; JAS 5:16–JAS 5:18; JHN 1:19–JHN 1:21; JHN 1:24–JHN 1:25
* **Associated Articles:** Miracle (ID: `26880@UWTranslationWords`); Prophet (ID: `26987@UWTranslationWords`); Yahweh (ID: `27218@UWTranslationWords`)

