# Translation Words (unfoldingWord)

## License Information

**Translation Words (unfoldingWord)** is based on and adapted from: _unfoldingWord® Translation Words_, [unfoldingWord](https://unfoldingword.org/utw), 2022, which is licensed under a [CC BY-SA 4.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode.en).

This markdown version (created `2025-10-16`) is provided under the same license.



--------------------------------

## Gideon (id: 26638)

Gideon
======

Facts:
------

Gideon was an Israelite man whom God raised up to deliver the Israelites from their enemies.

* During the time when Gideon lived, a people group called the Midianites kept attacking the Israelites and destroying their crops.
* Even though Gideon was afraid, God used him to lead the Israelites to fight against the Midianites and defeat them.
* Gideon also obeyed God by taking down altars to the false gods Baal and Asherah.
* He not only led the people in defeating their enemies but also encouraged them to obey and worship Yahweh, the one true God.

(Translation suggestions: How to Translate Names)

(See also: Baal, Asherah, deliver, Midian, Yahweh)

Bible References:
-----------------

* [Hebrews 11:32–34](https://ref.ly/Heb11:32-Heb11:34)
* [Judges 6:11](https://ref.ly/Judg6:11)
* [Judges 6:23](https://ref.ly/Judg6:23)
* [Judges 8:17](https://ref.ly/Judg8:17)

Examples from the Bible stories:
--------------------------------

* **16:5** The angel of Yahweh came to **Gideon** and said, “God is with you, mighty warrior. Go and save Israel from the Midianites.”
* **16:6** **Gideon’s** father had an altar dedicated to an idol. God told **Gideon** to tear down that altar.
* **16:8** There were so many of them (Midianites) that they could not be counted. **Gideon** called the Israelites together to fight them.
* **16:8** **Gideon** asked God for two signs so he could be sure that God would use him to save Israel.
* **16:10** 32,000 Israelite soldiers came to **Gideon**, but God told him this was too many.
* **16:12** Then **Gideon** returned to his soldiers and gave each of them a horn, a clay pot, and a torch.
* **16:15** The people wanted to make **Gideon** their king.
* **16:16** Then **Gideon** used the gold to make a special garment like the high priest used to wear. But the people started worshiping it as if it were an idol.

Word Data:
----------

* Strong’s: H1439, H1441

* **Associated Passages:** JDG 6:11; JDG 6:23; JDG 8:17; HEB 11:32; HEB 11:32–HEB 11:34
* **Associated Articles:** Asherim (ID: `26341@Unknown`); Baal (ID: `26355@UWTranslationWords`); Deliverer (ID: `26515@Unknown`); Midian (ID: `26876@UWTranslationWords`); Yahweh (ID: `27218@UWTranslationWords`)

