# Translation Words (unfoldingWord)

## License Information

**Translation Words (unfoldingWord)** is based on and adapted from: _unfoldingWord® Translation Words_, [unfoldingWord](https://unfoldingword.org/utw), 2022, which is licensed under a [CC BY-SA 4.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode.en).

This markdown version (created `2025-10-16`) is provided under the same license.



--------------------------------

## House of God (id: 26717)

house of God, your house, his house, Yahweh’s house, a house for my name, the house for my name, the house, a house, a house of Yahweh
======================================================================================================================================

Definition:
-----------

In the Bible, the phrases “house of God” (God’s house) and “house of Yahweh (Yahweh’s house)” refer to a place where God is worshiped.

* This term is also used more specifically to refer to the tabernacle or the temple.
* The terms “house of God” and “house of Yahweh” refer to the tabernacle or temple. These expressions can also refer generally to a central place where Yahweh was worshipped.
* The Bible often uses the phrases “your house” and “his house” to refer to the temple of Yahweh.
* The phrases “the house for my name,” “a house for my name,” and “a house of Yahweh” all refer to the temple of Yahweh.
* In some contexts, such as in 1 Chronicles 17:25 and 29:16, the phrase “a house” refers to the temple of Yahweh.
* In some contexts, such as in 1 Kings 8:44 and 2 Chronicles 6:4, the phrase “the house” refers to the temple of Yahweh.

Translation Suggestions:
------------------------

* When referring to a place of worship, this term could be translated as “a house for worshiping God” or “a place for worshiping God.”
* If it is referring to the temple or tabernacle, this could be translated as “the temple (or tabernacle) where God is worshiped” (or “where God is present” or “where God meets with his people”).
* The word “house” may be important to use in the translation in order to communicate that God “dwells” there, that is, his spirit is in that place to meet with his people and to be worshiped by them.
* The phrase “house of Yahweh” could be translated as “Yahweh’s temple” or “place where Yahweh is worshiped” or “place where Yahweh meets with his people” or “where Yahweh dwells.” The phrase “house of God” could be translated in a similar way.

(See also: people of God, tabernacle, temple)

Bible References:
-----------------

* [1 Timothy 3:14–15](https://ref.ly/1Tim3:14-1Tim3:15)
* [2 Chronicles 23:8–9](https://ref.ly/2Chr23:8-2Chr23:9)
* [Ezra 5:13](https://ref.ly/Ezra5:13)
* [Genesis 28:17](https://ref.ly/Gen28:17)
* [Judges 18:30–31](https://ref.ly/Judg18:30-Judg18:31)
* [Mark 2:26](https://ref.ly/Mark2:26)
* [Matthew 12:4](https://ref.ly/Matt12:4)

Word Data:
----------

* Strong’s: H0426, H0430, H1004, H1005, H3068, G23160, G36240

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 28:17; EZR 1:3; EZR 1:4; EZR 1:5; EZR 1:7; EZR 2:68; EZR 3:8; EZR 3:9; EZR 3:11; EZR 4:24; EZR 5:2; EZR 5:8; EZR 5:13; EZR 5:14; EZR 5:15; EZR 5:16; EZR 5:17; EZR 6:3; EZR 6:5; EZR 6:7; EZR 6:8; EZR 6:12; EZR 6:16; EZR 6:17; EZR 6:22; EZR 7:16; EZR 7:17; EZR 7:19; EZR 7:20; EZR 7:23; EZR 7:24; EZR 7:27; EZR 8:17; EZR 8:25; EZR 8:29; EZR 8:30; EZR 8:33; EZR 8:36; EZR 9:9; EZR 10:1; EZR 10:9; MAT 12:4; MRK 2:26; LUK 6:4; LUK 11:51; HEB 10:21; JDG 18:30–JDG 18:31; 1TI 3:14–1TI 3:15; 2CH 23:8–2CH 23:9
* **Associated Articles:** People of God (ID: `26942@UWTranslationWords`); Tabernacle (ID: `27136@UWTranslationWords`); Temple (ID: `27142@UWTranslationWords`)

