# Translation Words (unfoldingWord)

## License Information

**Translation Words (unfoldingWord)** is based on and adapted from: _unfoldingWord® Translation Words_, [unfoldingWord](https://unfoldingword.org/utw), 2022, which is licensed under a [CC BY-SA 4.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode.en).

This markdown version (created `2025-10-16`) is provided under the same license.



--------------------------------

## Jewish Leaders (id: 26761)

Jewish authorities, Jewish leader
=================================

Facts:
------

The term “Jewish leader” or “Jewish authority” refers to religious leaders such as the priests and teachers of God’s laws. They also had the authority to make judgments about non\-religious matters as well.

* The Jewish leaders were the high priests, chief priests, and scribes (teachers of God’s laws).
* Two main groups of Jewish leaders were the Pharisees and Saduccees.
* Seventy Jewish leaders met together in the Jewish Council in Jerusalem to make judgments about matters of law.
* Many Jewish leaders were proud and thought they were righteous. They were jealous of Jesus and wanted to harm him. They claimed to know God but did not obey him.
* Often the phrase “the Jews” referred to the Jewish leaders, especially in contexts where they were angry at Jesus and were trying to trick or harm him.
* These terms could also be translated as “Jewish rulers” or “men who ruled over the Jewish people” or “Jewish religious leaders.”

(See also: Jew, council, high priest, Pharisee, priest, Sadducee, scribe)

Bible References:
-----------------

* [Exodus 16:22–23](https://ref.ly/Exod16:22-Exod16:23)
* [John 2:19](https://ref.ly/John2:19)
* [John 5:10–11](https://ref.ly/John5:10-John5:11)
* [John 5:16](https://ref.ly/John5:16)
* [Luke 19:47–48](https://ref.ly/Luke19:47-Luke19:48)

Examples from the Bible stories:
--------------------------------

* **24:3** Many **religious leaders** also came to be baptized by John, but they did not repent or confess their sins.
* **37:11** But the **religious leaders of the Jews** were jealous, so they gathered together to plan how they could kill Jesus and Lazarus.
* **38:2** He (Judas) knew that the **Jewish leaders** denied that Jesus was the Messiah and that they were plotting to kill him.
* **38:3** The **Jewish leaders**, led by the high priest, paid Judas thirty silver coins to betray Jesus.
* **39:5** The **Jewish leaders** all answered the high priest, “He (Jesus) deserves to die!”
* **39:9** Early the next morning, the **Jewish leaders** brought Jesus to Pilate, the Roman governor.
* **39:11** But the **Jewish leaders** and the crowd shouted, “Crucify him!”
* **40:9** Then Joseph and Nicodemus, two **Jewish leaders** who believed Jesus was the Messiah, asked Pilate for Jesus’ body.
* **44:7** The next day, the **Jewish leaders** brought Peter and John to the high priest and the other **religious leaders**.

Word Data:
----------

* Strong’s: G24530

* **Associated Passages:** JHN 2:19; JHN 5:16; EXO 16:22–EXO 16:23; JHN 5:10–JHN 5:11; LUK 19:47–LUK 19:48
* **Associated Articles:** Council (ID: `26474@UWTranslationWords`); High Priest (ID: `26694@UWTranslationWords`); Jew (ID: `26760@UWTranslationWords`); Pharisee (ID: `26953@UWTranslationWords`); Priest (ID: `26979@UWTranslationWords`); Sadducee (ID: `27047@UWTranslationWords`); Scribe (ID: `27062@UWTranslationWords`)

