# Translation Words (unfoldingWord)

## License Information

**Translation Words (unfoldingWord)** is based on and adapted from: _unfoldingWord® Translation Words_, [unfoldingWord](https://unfoldingword.org/utw), 2022, which is licensed under a [CC BY-SA 4.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode.en).

This markdown version (created `2025-10-16`) is provided under the same license.



--------------------------------

## Judas Iscariot (id: 26784)

Judas Iscariot
==============

Facts:
------

Judas Iscariot was one of Jesus’ apostles. He was the one who betrayed Jesus to the Jewish leaders.

* The name “Iscariot” may mean “from Kerioth,” perhaps indicating that Judas grew up in that city.
* Judas Iscariot managed the apostles’ money and regularly stole some of it to use for himself.
* Judas betrayed Jesus by telling the religious leaders where Jesus was so they could arrest him.
* After the religious leaders condemned Jesus to die, Judas regretted that he had betrayed Jesus, so he gave the betrayal money back to the Jewish leaders and then killed himself.
* One of the other apostles of Jesus was Judas son of James. He was not the same person as Judas Iscariot.
* One of Jesus’ brothers was named Judas. He was later known as “Jude.” He was not the same person as Judas Iscariot.

(Translation suggestions: Translate Names)

(See also: apostle, betray, Jewish leaders, Judas the son of James)

Bible References:
-----------------

* [Luke 6:14–16](https://ref.ly/Luke6:14-Luke6:16)
* [Luke 22:47–48](https://ref.ly/Luke22:47-Luke22:48)
* [Mark 3:19](https://ref.ly/Mark3:19)
* [Mark 14:10–11](https://ref.ly/Mark14:10-Mark14:11)
* [Matthew 26:23–25](https://ref.ly/Matt26:23-Matt26:25)

Examples from the Bible stories:
--------------------------------

* **38:2** One of Jesus’ disciples was a man named **Judas**. … After Jesus and the disciples arrived in Jerusalem, **Judas** went to the Jewish leaders and offered to betray Jesus to them in exchange for money.
* **38:3** The Jewish leaders, led by the high priest, paid **Judas** thirty silver coins to betray Jesus.
* **38:14** **Judas** came with the Jewish leaders, soldiers, and a large crowd. They were all carrying swords and clubs. **Judas** came to Jesus and said, “Greetings, teacher,” and kissed him.
* **39:8** Meanwhile, **Judas**, the betrayer, saw that the Jewish leaders had condemned Jesus to die. He became full of sorrow and went away and killed himself.

Word Data:
----------

* Strong’s: G24550, G24690

* **Associated Passages:** MAT 10:4; MAT 26:14; MAT 26:25; MAT 26:47; MAT 27:3; MRK 3:19; MRK 14:10; MRK 14:43; LUK 6:16; LUK 22:3; LUK 22:47; LUK 22:48; JHN 6:71; JHN 12:4; JHN 13:2; JHN 13:26; JHN 13:29; JHN 14:22; JHN 18:2; JHN 18:3; JHN 18:5; ACT 1:16; ACT 1:25; LUK 6:14–LUK 6:16; MRK 14:10–MRK 14:11; LUK 22:47–LUK 22:48; MAT 26:23–MAT 26:25
* **Associated Articles:** Apostle (ID: `26324@UWTranslationWords`); Betray (ID: `26391@UWTranslationWords`); Jewish Leaders (ID: `26761@UWTranslationWords`); Judas Son of James (ID: `26785@UWTranslationWords`)

