# Translation Words (unfoldingWord)

## License Information

**Translation Words (unfoldingWord)** is based on and adapted from: _unfoldingWord® Translation Words_, [unfoldingWord](https://unfoldingword.org/utw), 2022, which is licensed under a [CC BY-SA 4.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode.en).

This markdown version (created `2025-10-16`) is provided under the same license.



--------------------------------

## Melchizedek (id: 26866)

Melchizedek
===========

Facts:
------

During the time when Abram lived, Melchizedek was the king of the city of Salem (later “Jerusalem”)

* Melchizedek’s name means “king of righteousness” and his title “king of Salem” means “king of peace.”
* He was also called a “priest of God Most High.”
* Melchizedek is first mentioned in the Bible when he served Abram bread and wine after Abram rescued his nephew Lot from powerful kings. Abram gave Melchizedek one\-tenth of the plunder from his victory.
* In the New Testament, Melchizedek is described as someone who had no father or mother. He was called a priest and king who will reign forever.
* The New Testament also says that Jesus is a priest according to the priestly “order of Melchizedek.” Jesus was not descended from Levi as the Israelite priests were. His priesthood is directly from God, as Melchizedek’s was.
* Based on these descriptions of him in the Bible, Melchizedek was a human priest who was also chosen by God to represent or point forward to Jesus, the eternal king of peace and righteousness and our great high priest.

(Translation suggestions: How to Translate Names)

(See also: Abraham, everlasting, high priest, Jerusalem, Levite, priest, righteous)

Bible References:
-----------------

* [Genesis 14:18](https://ref.ly/Gen14:18)
* [Hebrews 6:20](https://ref.ly/Heb6:20)
* [Hebrews 7:17](https://ref.ly/Heb7:17)
* [Psalm 110:4](https://ref.ly/Ps110:4)

Word Data:
----------

* Strong’s: H4442, G31980

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 14:18; PSA 110:4; HEB 5:6; HEB 5:10; HEB 6:20; HEB 7:1; HEB 7:10; HEB 7:11; HEB 7:15; HEB 7:17
* **Associated Articles:** Abraham (ID: `26282@UWTranslationWords`); Eternity (ID: `26570@Unknown`); High Priest (ID: `26694@UWTranslationWords`); Jerusalem (ID: `26756@UWTranslationWords`); Levite (ID: `26825@UWTranslationWords`); Priest (ID: `26979@UWTranslationWords`); Righteous (ID: `27035@UWTranslationWords`)

