# Translation Words (unfoldingWord)

## License Information

**Translation Words (unfoldingWord)** is based on and adapted from: _unfoldingWord® Translation Words_, [unfoldingWord](https://unfoldingword.org/utw), 2022, which is licensed under a [CC BY-SA 4.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode.en).

This markdown version (created `2025-10-16`) is provided under the same license.



--------------------------------

## Kedar (id: 26792)

Kedar
=====

Facts:
------

Kedar was Ishmael’s second son. It was also an important city, which was probably named after the man.

* The city of Kedar is located in the northern part of Arabia near the southern border of Palestine. In Bible times, it was known for its greatness and beauty.
* The descendants of Kedar formed a large people group that is also called “Kedar.”
* The phrase “dark tents of Kedar” refers to the black goathair tents the people of Kedar lived in.
* These people raised sheep and goats. They also used camels for transporting things.
* In the Bible, the phrase “the glory of Kedar” refers to the greatness of that city and its people.

(Translation suggestions: How to Translate Names)

(See also: Arabia, goat, Ishmael, sacrifice)

Bible References:
-----------------

* [Song of Songs 1:5](https://ref.ly/Song1:5)

Word Data:
----------

* Strong’s: H6938

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 25:13; SNG 1:5
* **Associated Articles:** Arabia (ID: `26328@UWTranslationWords`); Goat (ID: `26645@UWTranslationWords`); Ishmael (ID: `26736@UWTranslationWords`); Sacrifice (ID: `27046@UWTranslationWords`)

