# Translation Words (unfoldingWord)

## License Information

**Translation Words (unfoldingWord)** is based on and adapted from: _unfoldingWord® Translation Words_, [unfoldingWord](https://unfoldingword.org/utw), 2022, which is licensed under a [CC BY-SA 4.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode.en).

This markdown version (created `2025-10-16`) is provided under the same license.



--------------------------------

## Know-relationship (id: 26803)

know, knew, knowledge, unknown
==============================

Definition:
-----------

Used in this sense the term “know” and “knowledge” and “knew” mean to be in relationship with a person.

* To “know” God means to have a relationship with him. This also applies to knowing people.
* Jesus said in Matthew 7:23 that on judgement day he will say to some people “I never knew you”. By saying “I never knew you” he means that he was never in personal relationship with them.
* The “knowledge of God” is sometimes used as a synonym for the “fear of Yahweh.”
* When used of a man and a woman to “know” is often an euphemism that refers to having sexual intercourse.

Translation Suggestions
-----------------------

* Depending on the context, ways to translate this meaning of “know” could include “be acquainted with” or “be familiar with” or “be in relationship with.”
* Some languages have two different words for “know,” one for knowing facts and one for knowing a person and having a relationship with that person. The word for knowing a person and having a relationship with that person should be used when translating this sense of the word “know.”

(See also: know\-information,reveal)

Bible References:
-----------------

Word Data:
----------


