# Translation Words (unfoldingWord)

## License Information

**Translation Words (unfoldingWord)** is based on and adapted from: _unfoldingWord® Translation Words_, [unfoldingWord](https://unfoldingword.org/utw), 2022, which is licensed under a [CC BY-SA 4.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode.en).

This markdown version (created `2025-10-16`) is provided under the same license.



--------------------------------

## Lazarus (id: 26818)

Lazarus
=======

Facts:
------

Lazarus and his sisters, Mary and Martha, were special friends of Jesus. Jesus often stayed with them in their home in Bethany.

* Lazarus is best known for the fact that Jesus raised him from the dead after he had been buried in a tomb for several days.
* The Jewish leaders were angry at Jesus and jealous that he had done this miracle, and they tried to find a way to kill both Jesus and Lazarus.
* Jesus also told a parable about a poor beggar and a rich man in which the beggar was a different man named “Lazarus.”

(Translation suggestions: How to Translate Names)

(See also: beg, Jewish leaders, Martha, Mary, raise)

Bible References:
-----------------

* [John 11:11](https://ref.ly/John11:11)
* [John 12:1–3](https://ref.ly/John12:1-John12:3)
* [Luke 16:21](https://ref.ly/Luke16:21)

Examples from the Bible stories:
--------------------------------

* **37:1** One day, Jesus received a message that **Lazarus** was very sick. **Lazarus** and his two sisters, Mary and Martha, were close friends of Jesus.
* **37:2** Jesus said, “Our friend **Lazarus** has fallen asleep, and I must wake him.”
* **37:3** Jesus’ disciples replied, “Master, if **Lazarus** is sleeping, then he will get better.” Then Jesus told them plainly, “**Lazarus** is dead.”
* **37:4** When Jesus arrived at **Lazarus’** hometown, **Lazarus** had already been dead for four days.
* **37:6** Jesus asked them, “Where have you put **Lazarus**?”
* **37:9** Then Jesus shouted, “**Lazarus**, come out!”
* **37:10** So **Lazarus** came out! He was still wrapped in grave clothes.
* **37:11** But the religious leaders of the Jews were jealous, so they gathered together to plan how they could kill Jesus and **Lazarus**.

Word Data:
----------

* Strong’s: G29760

* **Associated Passages:** LUK 16:21; JHN 11:1; JHN 11:2; JHN 11:5; JHN 11:11; JHN 11:14; JHN 11:43; JHN 12:1; JHN 12:2; JHN 12:9; JHN 12:10; JHN 12:17; JHN 12:1–JHN 12:3
* **Associated Articles:** Beg (ID: `26379@UWTranslationWords`); Jewish Leaders (ID: `26761@UWTranslationWords`); Martha (ID: `26855@UWTranslationWords`); Mary (ID: `26856@UWTranslationWords`)

