# Translation Words (unfoldingWord)

## License Information

**Translation Words (unfoldingWord)** is based on and adapted from: _unfoldingWord® Translation Words_, [unfoldingWord](https://unfoldingword.org/utw), 2022, which is licensed under a [CC BY-SA 4.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode.en).

This markdown version (created `2025-10-16`) is provided under the same license.



--------------------------------

## King of the Jews (id: 26801)

King of the Jews
================

Definition:
-----------

The term “King of the Jews” is a title that refers to Jesus, the Messiah.

* The first time the Bible records this title is when it was used by the wise men who traveled to Bethlehem looking for the baby who was “King of the Jews.”
* The angel revealed to Mary that her son, a descendant of King David, would be a king whose reign would last forever.
* Before Jesus was crucified, Roman soldiers mockingly called Jesus “King of the Jews.” This title was also written on a piece of wood and nailed to the top of Jesus’ cross.
* Jesus truly is the King of the Jews and the king over all creation.

Translation Suggestions:
------------------------

* The term “King of the Jews” could also be translated as “king over the Jews” or “king who rules over the Jews” or “supreme ruler of the Jews.”
* Check to see how the phrase “king of” is translated in other places in the translation.

(See also: descendant, Jew, Jesus, king, kingdom, kingdom of God, wise men)

Bible References:
-----------------

* [Luke 23:3](https://ref.ly/Luke23:3)
* [Luke 23:38](https://ref.ly/Luke23:38)
* [Matthew 2:2](https://ref.ly/Matt2:2)
* [Matthew 27:11](https://ref.ly/Matt27:11)
* [Matthew 27:35–37](https://ref.ly/Matt27:35-Matt27:37)

Examples from the Bible stories:
--------------------------------

* **23:9** Some time later, wise men from countries far to the east saw an unusual star in the sky. They realized it meant a new **king of the Jews** was born.
* **39:9** Pilate asked Jesus, “Are you the **King of the Jews**?”
* **39:12** The Roman soldiers whipped Jesus and put a royal robe and a crown made of thorns on him. Then they mocked him by saying, “Look, the **King of the Jews**!”
* **40:2** Pilate commanded that they write, “**King of the Jews**” on a sign and put it on the cross above Jesus’ head.

Word Data:
----------

* Strong’s: G09350, G24530

* **Associated Passages:** MAT 2:2; MAT 27:11; MAT 27:29; MAT 27:37; MRK 15:2; MRK 15:9; MRK 15:12; MRK 15:18; MRK 15:26; LUK 23:3; LUK 23:37; LUK 23:38; JHN 18:33; JHN 18:39; JHN 19:3; JHN 19:14; JHN 19:19; JHN 19:21; MAT 27:35–MAT 27:37
* **Associated Articles:** Descendant (ID: `26518@UWTranslationWords`); Jesus (ID: `26758@UWTranslationWords`); Jew (ID: `26760@UWTranslationWords`); King (ID: `26796@UWTranslationWords`); Kingdom (ID: `26797@UWTranslationWords`); Kingdom of God (ID: `26798@UWTranslationWords`); Wise Men (ID: `27209@UWTranslationWords`)

