# Translation Words (unfoldingWord)

## License Information

**Translation Words (unfoldingWord)** is based on and adapted from: _unfoldingWord® Translation Words_, [unfoldingWord](https://unfoldingword.org/utw), 2022, which is licensed under a [CC BY-SA 4.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode.en).

This markdown version (created `2025-10-16`) is provided under the same license.



--------------------------------

## Kingdom of Israel (id: 26799)

kingdom of Israel
=================

Facts:
------

What had been the northern part of the nation of Israel became the kingdom of Israel when the twelve tribes of Israel were divided into two kingdoms after Solomon died.

* The kingdom of Israel in the north had ten tribes, and the kingdom of Judah in the south had two tribes.
* The capital city of the kingdom of Israel was Samaria. It was about 50 km from Jerusalem, the capital city of the kingdom of Judah.
* All the kings of the kingdom of Israel were evil. They influenced the people to to serve idols and false gods.
* God sent the Assyrians to attack the kingdom of Israel. Many Israelites were captured and taken away to live in Assyria.
* The Assyrians brought foreigners to live among the remaining people of the kingdom of Israel. These foreigners intermarried with the Israelites, and their descendants became the Samaritan people.

(See also: Assyria, Israel, Judah, Jerusalem, kingdom, Samaria)

Bible References:
-----------------

* [2 Chronicles 35:18](https://ref.ly/2Chr35:18)
* [Jeremiah 5:11](https://ref.ly/Jer5:11)
* [Jeremiah 9:26](https://ref.ly/Jer9:26)

Examples from the Bible stories:
--------------------------------

* **18:8** The other ten tribes of the nation of Israel that rebelled against Rehoboam appointed a man named Jeroboam to be their king. They set up their kingdom in the northern part of the land and were called the **kingdom of Israel**.
* **18:10** The **kingdoms of Judah and Israel** became enemies and often fought against each other.
* **18:11** In the new **kingdom of Israel**, all the kings were evil.
* **20:1** The **kingdoms of Israel** and Judah both sinned against God.
* **20:2** The **kingdom of Israel** was destroyed by the Assyrian Empire, a powerful, cruel nation. The Assyrians killed many people in the **kingdom of Israel**, took away everything of value, and burned much of the country.
* **20:4** Then the Assyrians brought foreigners to live in the land where the **kingdom of Israel** had been. The foreigners rebuilt the destroyed cities and married the Israelites who were left there. The descendants of the Israelites who married foreigners were called Samaritans.

Word Data:
----------

* Strong’s: H3478, H4410, H4467, H4468

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 35:18; JER 5:11; JER 9:26
* **Associated Articles:** Assyria (ID: `26346@UWTranslationWords`); Israel (ID: `26737@UWTranslationWords`); Jerusalem (ID: `26756@UWTranslationWords`); Judah (ID: `26782@UWTranslationWords`); Kingdom (ID: `26797@UWTranslationWords`); Kingdom of Judah (ID: `26800@Unknown`); Samaria (ID: `27050@UWTranslationWords`)

