# Translation Words (unfoldingWord)

## License Information

**Translation Words (unfoldingWord)** is based on and adapted from: _unfoldingWord® Translation Words_, [unfoldingWord](https://unfoldingword.org/utw), 2022, which is licensed under a [CC BY-SA 4.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode.en).

This markdown version (created `2025-10-16`) is provided under the same license.



--------------------------------

## Joshua (id: 26778)

Joshua
======

Facts:
------

There were several Israelite men named Joshua in the Bible. The most well\-known is Joshua son of Nun who was Moses’ helper and who later became an important leader of God’s people.

* Joshua was one of the twelve spies whom Moses sent to explore the Promised Land.
* Along with Caleb, Joshua urged the Israelite people to obey God’s command to enter the Promised Land and defeat the Canaanites.
* Many years later, after Moses died, God appointed Joshua to lead the people of Israel into the Promised Land.
* In the first and most famous battle against the Canaanites, Joshua led the Israelites to defeat the city of Jericho.
* The Old Testament book of Joshua tells how Joshua led the Israelites in taking control of the Promised Land and how he assigned each tribe of Israel a part of the land to live on.
* Joshua son of Jozadak is mentioned in the books of Haggai and Zechariah; he was a high priest who helped rebuild the walls of Jerusalem.
* There are several other men named Joshua mentioned in the genealogies and elsewhere in the Bible.

(Translation suggestions: How to Translate Names)

(See also: Canaan, Haggai, Jericho, Moses, Promised Land, Zechariah (OT))

Bible References:
-----------------

* [1 Chronicles 7:25–27](https://ref.ly/1Chr7:25-1Chr7:27)
* [Deuteronomy 3:21](https://ref.ly/Deut3:21)
* [Exodus 17:10](https://ref.ly/Exod17:10)
* [Joshua 1:3](https://ref.ly/Josh1:3)
* [Numbers 27:19](https://ref.ly/Num27:19)

Examples from the Bible stories:
--------------------------------

* **14:4** When the Israelites reached the edge of Canaan, Moses chose twelve men, one from each tribe of Israel. He gave the men instructions to go and spy on the land to see what it was like.
* **14:6** Immediately Caleb and **Joshua**, the other two spies, said, “It is true that the people of Canaan are tall and strong, but we can certainly defeat them!”
* **14:8** “Except for **Joshua** and Caleb, everyone who is twenty years old or older will die there and never enter the Promised Land.”
* **14:14** Moses was now very old, so God chose **Joshua** to help him lead the people.
* **14:15** **Joshua** was a good leader because he trusted and obeyed God.
* **15:3** After the people crossed the Jordan River, God told **Joshua** how to attack the powerful city of Jericho.

Word Data:
----------

* Strong’s: H3091, G24240

* **Associated Passages:** EXO 17:9; EXO 17:10; EXO 17:13; EXO 17:14; EXO 24:13; EXO 32:17; EXO 33:11; NUM 27:19; DEU 3:21; JOS 1:3; NEH 8:17; HAG 1:1; HAG 1:12; HAG 1:14; HAG 2:2; HAG 2:4; ACT 7:45; HEB 4:8; 1CH 7:25–1CH 7:27
* **Associated Articles:** Canaan (ID: `26430@UWTranslationWords`); Haggai (ID: `26669@UWTranslationWords`); Jericho (ID: `26754@UWTranslationWords`); Moses (ID: `26889@UWTranslationWords`); Promised Land (ID: `26986@UWTranslationWords`); Zechariah OT (ID: `27228@UWTranslationWords`)

