# Translation Words (unfoldingWord)

## License Information

**Translation Words (unfoldingWord)** is based on and adapted from: _unfoldingWord® Translation Words_, [unfoldingWord](https://unfoldingword.org/utw), 2022, which is licensed under a [CC BY-SA 4.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode.en).

This markdown version (created `2025-10-16`) is provided under the same license.



--------------------------------

## Nile River (id: 26911)

Nile River, River of Egypt, the Nile
====================================

Facts:
------

The Nile is a very long and wide river in northeastern Africa. It is especially well known as the main river of Egypt.

* The Nile River flows north through Egypt and into the Mediterranean Sea.
* Crops grow well in the fertile land on either side of the Nile River.
* Most Egyptians live near the Nile River since it is an important source of water for food crops.
* The Israelites lived in the land of Goshen, which was very fertile because it was located along the Nile River.
* When Moses was a baby, his parents placed him in a basket among the reeds of the Nile to hide him from Pharaoh’s men.

(Translation suggestions: How to Translate Names)

(See also: Egypt, Goshen, Moses)

Bible References:
-----------------

* [Amos 8:8](https://ref.ly/Amos8:8)
* [Genesis 41:1–3](https://ref.ly/Gen41:1-Gen41:3)
* [Jeremiah 46:8](https://ref.ly/Jer46:8)

Examples from the Bible stories:
--------------------------------

* **8:4** Egypt was a large, powerful country located along the **Nile River**.
* **9:4** Pharaoh saw that the Israelites were having many babies, so he ordered his people to kill all Israelite baby boys by throwing them into the **Nile River**.
* **9:6** When the boy’s parents could no longer hide him, they put him in a floating basket among the reeds along the edge of the **Nile River** in order to save him from being killed.
* **10:3** God turned the **Nile River** into blood, but Pharaoh still would not let the Israelites go.

Word Data:
----------

* Strong’s: H0216, H2975, H4714, H5104

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 41:1; GEN 41:2; GEN 41:3; GEN 41:17; GEN 41:18; EXO 1:22; EXO 2:3; EXO 2:5; EXO 4:9; EXO 7:15; EXO 7:17; EXO 7:18; EXO 7:20; EXO 7:21; EXO 7:24; EXO 7:25; EXO 8:3; EXO 8:9; EXO 8:11; EXO 17:5; JER 46:8; AMO 8:8; GEN 41:1–GEN 41:3
* **Associated Articles:** Egypt (ID: `26548@UWTranslationWords`); Goshen (ID: `26655@UWTranslationWords`); Moses (ID: `26889@UWTranslationWords`)

