# Translation Words (unfoldingWord)

## License Information

**Translation Words (unfoldingWord)** is based on and adapted from: _unfoldingWord® Translation Words_, [unfoldingWord](https://unfoldingword.org/utw), 2022, which is licensed under a [CC BY-SA 4.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode.en).

This markdown version (created `2025-10-16`) is provided under the same license.



--------------------------------

## Naaman (id: 26897)

Naaman
======

Facts:
------

In the Old Testament, Naaman was the commander of the army of the king of Aram.

* Naaman had a terrible skin disease called leprosy that could not be cured.
* A Jewish slave in Naaman’s household told him to go ask the prophet Elisha to heal him.
* Elisha told Naaman to wash seven times in the Jordan River. When Naaman obeyed, God healed him of his disease.
* As a result, Naaman came to believe in the only true God, Yahweh.
* Two other men named Naaman were descendants of Jacob’s son Benjamin.

(Translation suggestions: How to Translate Names)

(See also: Aram, Jordan River, leprosy, prophet)

Bible References:
-----------------

* [1 Chronicles 8:6–7](https://ref.ly/1Chr8:6-1Chr8:7)
* [2 Kings 5:1](https://ref.ly/2Kgs5:1)
* [Luke 4:27](https://ref.ly/Luke4:27)

Examples from the Bible stories:
--------------------------------

* **19:14** One of the miracles happened to **Naaman**, an enemy commander, who had a horrible skin disease.
* **19:15** At first **Naaman** was angry and would not do it because it seemed foolish. But later he changed his mind and dipped himself seven times in the Jordan River.
* **26:6** “He (Elisha) only healed the skin disease of **Naaman**, a commander of Israel’s enemies.”

Word Data:
----------

* Strong’s: H5283, G34970

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 46:21; 2KI 5:1; LUK 4:27; 1CH 8:6–1CH 8:7
* **Associated Articles:** Aram (ID: `26329@UWTranslationWords`); Jordan River (ID: `26775@UWTranslationWords`); Leprosy (ID: `26823@UWTranslationWords`); Prophet (ID: `26987@UWTranslationWords`)

