# Translation Words (unfoldingWord)

## License Information

**Translation Words (unfoldingWord)** is based on and adapted from: _unfoldingWord® Translation Words_, [unfoldingWord](https://unfoldingword.org/utw), 2022, which is licensed under a [CC BY-SA 4.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode.en).

This markdown version (created `2025-10-16`) is provided under the same license.



--------------------------------

## Micah (id: 26874)

Micah
=====

Facts:
------

Micah was a prophet of Judah around 700 years before Christ, when the prophet Isaiah was also ministering to Judah. Another man named Micah lived during the time of the judges.

* The book of Micah is near the end of the Old Testament.
* Micah prophesied about the destruction of Samaria by the Assyrians.
* Micah rebuked the people of Judah for disobeying God and warned them that their enemies would attack them.
* His prophecy ends with a message of hope in God, who is faithful and saves his people.
* In the book of Judges, the story is told of a man named Micah living in Ephraim who made an idol out of silver. A young Levite priest who came to live with him stole the idol and other things, and took off with a group of Danites. Eventually the Danites and the priest settled in the city of Laish and they set up that same silver idol to worship.

(Translation suggestions: Translate Names)

(See also: Assyria, Dan, Ephraim, false god, Isaiah, Judah, judge, Levite, priest, prophet, Samaria, silver)

Bible References:
-----------------

* [Jeremiah 26:18–19](https://ref.ly/Jer26:18-Jer26:19)
* [Micah 1:1](https://ref.ly/Mic1:1)
* [Micah 6:2](https://ref.ly/Mic6:2)

Word Data:
----------

* Strong’s: H4318

* **Associated Passages:** NEH 11:17; MIC 1:1; MIC 6:2; JER 26:18–JER 26:19
* **Associated Articles:** Assyria (ID: `26346@UWTranslationWords`); Dan (ID: `26499@UWTranslationWords`); Ephraim (ID: `26566@UWTranslationWords`); False God (ID: `26586@UWTranslationWords`); Isaiah (ID: `26735@UWTranslationWords`); Judah (ID: `26782@UWTranslationWords`); Judge (ID: `26787@UWTranslationWords`); Judge Position (ID: `26788@Unknown`); Kingdom of Judah (ID: `26800@Unknown`); Levite (ID: `26825@UWTranslationWords`); Priest (ID: `26979@UWTranslationWords`); Prophet (ID: `26987@UWTranslationWords`); Samaria (ID: `27050@UWTranslationWords`); Silver (ID: `27095@UWTranslationWords`)

