# Translation Words (unfoldingWord)

## License Information

**Translation Words (unfoldingWord)** is based on and adapted from: _unfoldingWord® Translation Words_, [unfoldingWord](https://unfoldingword.org/utw), 2022, which is licensed under a [CC BY-SA 4.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode.en).

This markdown version (created `2025-10-16`) is provided under the same license.



--------------------------------

## Rome (id: 27039)

Rome, Roman
===========

Facts:
------

In New Testament times, the city of Rome was the center of the Roman Empire. It is now the capital city of the modern\-day country of Italy.

* The Roman Empire ruled over all the regions around the Mediterranean Sea, including Israel.
* The term “Roman” referred to anything relating to the regions that the government in Rome controlled, including Roman citizens and Roman officials.
* The apostle Paul was taken to the city of Rome as a prisoner because he preached the good news about Jesus.
* The New Testament book of “Romans” is a letter that Paul wrote to the Christians in Rome.

(See also: good news, the sea, Pilate, Paul)

Bible References:
-----------------

* [2 Timothy 1:15–18](https://ref.ly/2Tim1:15-2Tim1:18)
* [Acts 22:25](https://ref.ly/Acts22:25)
* [Acts 28:14](https://ref.ly/Acts28:14)
* [John 11:48](https://ref.ly/John11:48)

Examples from the Bible stories:
--------------------------------

* **23:4** When the time was near for Mary to give birth, the **Roman** government told everyone to go for a census to the town where their ancestors had lived.
* **32:6** Then Jesus asked the demon, “What is your name?” He replied, “My name is Legion, because we are many.” (A “legion” was a group of several thousand soldiers in the **Roman** army.)
* **39:9** Early the next morning, the Jewish leaders brought Jesus to the **Roman** governor, Pilate, hoping to have Jesus killed.
* **39:12** The **Roman** soldiers whipped Jesus and put a royal robe and a crown made of thorns on him. Then they mocked him by saying, “Look, the King of the Jews!”

Word Data:
----------

* Strong’s: G45140, G45160

* **Associated Passages:** JHN 11:48; ACT 2:10; ACT 16:21; ACT 16:37; ACT 16:38; ACT 18:2; ACT 19:21; ACT 22:25; ACT 22:26; ACT 22:27; ACT 22:29; ACT 23:11; ACT 23:27; ACT 25:16; ACT 28:14; ACT 28:16; ACT 28:17; ROM 1:7; ROM 1:15; 2TI 1:17; 2TI 1:15–2TI 1:18
* **Associated Articles:** Good News (ID: `26654@UWTranslationWords`); Mediterranean (ID: `26864@Unknown`); Paul (ID: `26937@UWTranslationWords`); Pilate (ID: `26962@UWTranslationWords`)

