# Translation Words (unfoldingWord)

## License Information

**Translation Words (unfoldingWord)** is based on and adapted from: _unfoldingWord® Translation Words_, [unfoldingWord](https://unfoldingword.org/utw), 2022, which is licensed under a [CC BY-SA 4.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode.en).

This markdown version (created `2025-10-16`) is provided under the same license.



--------------------------------

## Proud (id: 26993)

proud, pride, prideful, boast, boastful, boasting
=================================================

Definition:
-----------

The terms “proud” and “pride,” in this sense, refer to a person thinking too highly of themself, and especially, thinking that he is better than other people. The term “boast,” when used with this sense, means to talk proudly about something or someone. Often it means to brag about oneself.

* A proud person often does not admit his own faults. He is not humble.
* Pride can lead to disobeying God in other ways.
* The term “prideful” is always negative, with the meaning of being “arrogant” or “conceited” or “self\-important.”
* The term “boastful” is always negative, and refers to a person who brags about themself or what they possess or have done or can do.
* Someone who is “boastful” frequently talks about himself in a proud way.
* God rebuked the Israelites for “boasting in” their idols. They arrogantly worshiped false gods instead of the true God.
* The Bible also talks about people boasting in such things as their wealth, their strength, their fruitful fields, and their laws. This means that they were proud about these things and did not acknowledge that God is the one who provided these things.

Translation Suggestions:
------------------------

* The noun “pride” could be translated as “arrogance” or “conceit” or “self\-importance.”
* Other ways to translate “boast” could include “brag” or “talk proudly” or “be proud.”
* The term “boastful” could be translated by a word or phrase that means “full of prideful talk” or “prideful” or “talking proudly about oneself.”

(See also: arrogant, humble, proud positive sense)

Bible References:
-----------------

Examples from the Bible stories:
--------------------------------

* **4:2** They were very **proud**, and they did not care about what God said.
* **34:10** Then Jesus said, “I tell you the truth, God heard the tax collector’s prayer and declared him to be righteous. But he did not like the prayer of the religious leader. God will humble everyone who is **proud**, and he will lift up whoever humbles himself.”

Word Data:
----------

* Strong’s:

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 19:13; EXO 18:11; NEH 9:10; NEH 9:16; NEH 9:29; JOB 2:13; JOB 7:17; JOB 19:5; JOB 31:18; PRO 8:13; PRO 11:2; PRO 13:10; PRO 14:3; PRO 15:25; PRO 16:18; PRO 16:19; PRO 21:24; PRO 29:23; OBA 1:3; MRK 7:22; LUK 1:51; ROM 1:30; ROM 12:16; 2CO 12:20; 1TI 3:6; 1TI 6:4; 1TI 6:17; JAS 4:6; 1PE 5:5
* **Associated Articles:** Arrogant (ID: `26335@UWTranslationWords`); Humble (ID: `26718@UWTranslationWords`); Proud-Positivesense (ID: `26992@UWTranslationWords`)

