# Translation Words (unfoldingWord)

## License Information

**Translation Words (unfoldingWord)** is based on and adapted from: _unfoldingWord® Translation Words_, [unfoldingWord](https://unfoldingword.org/utw), 2022, which is licensed under a [CC BY-SA 4.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode.en).

This markdown version (created `2025-10-16`) is provided under the same license.



--------------------------------

## Solomon (id: 27107)

Solomon
=======

Facts:
------

Solomon was one of King David’s sons. His mother was Bathsheba.

* When Solomon became king, God told him to ask for anything he wanted. So Solomon asked for wisdom to rule the people justly and well. God was pleased with Solomon’s request and gave him both wisdom and much wealth.
* Solomon is also well known for having a magnificent temple built in Jerusalem.
* Although Solomon ruled wisely in the first years of his reign, later on he foolishly married many foreign women and started worshiping their gods.
* Because of Solomon’s unfaithfulness, after his death God divided the Israelites into two kingdoms, Israel and Judah. These kingdoms often fought against each other.

(Translation suggestions: How to Translate Names)

(See also: Bathsheba, David, Israel, Judah, kingdom of Israel, temple)

Bible References:
-----------------

* [Acts 7:47–50](https://ref.ly/Acts7:47-Acts7:50)
* [Luke 12:27](https://ref.ly/Luke12:27)
* [Matthew 1:7–8](https://ref.ly/Matt1:7-Matt1:8)
* [Matthew 6:29](https://ref.ly/Matt6:29)
* [Matthew 12:42](https://ref.ly/Matt12:42)

Examples from the Bible stories:
--------------------------------

* **17:14** Later, David and Bathsheba had another son, and they named him **Solomon**.
* **18:1** After many years, David died, and his son **Solomon** began to rule. God spoke to **Solomon** and asked him what he wanted most. When **Solomon** asked for wisdom, God was pleased and made him the wisest man in the world. **Solomon** learned many things and was a very wise judge. God also made him very wealthy.
* **18:2** In Jerusalem, **Solomon** built the Temple for which his father David had planned and gathered materials.
* **18:3** But **Solomon** loved women from other countries.…When **Solomon** was old, he also worshiped their gods.
* **18:4** God was angry with **Solomon** and, as a punishment for **Solomon’s** unfaithfulness, he promised to divide the nation of Israel into two kingdoms after **Solomon’s** death.

Word Data:
----------

* Strong’s: H8010, G46720

* **Associated Passages:** EZR 2:55; EZR 2:58; NEH 7:57; NEH 7:60; NEH 11:3; NEH 12:45; NEH 13:26; PRO 1:1; PRO 10:1; PRO 25:1; SNG 1:1; SNG 1:5; SNG 3:7; SNG 3:9; SNG 3:11; SNG 8:11; SNG 8:12; MAT 1:6; MAT 1:7; MAT 6:29; MAT 12:42; LUK 11:31; LUK 12:27; JHN 10:23; ACT 3:11; ACT 5:12; ACT 7:47; MAT 1:7–MAT 1:8; ACT 7:47–ACT 7:50
* **Associated Articles:** Bathsheba (ID: `26369@UWTranslationWords`); David (ID: `26503@UWTranslationWords`); Israel (ID: `26737@UWTranslationWords`); Judah (ID: `26782@UWTranslationWords`); Kingdom of Israel (ID: `26799@UWTranslationWords`); Temple (ID: `27142@UWTranslationWords`)

