# Translation Words (unfoldingWord)

## License Information

**Translation Words (unfoldingWord)** is based on and adapted from: _unfoldingWord® Translation Words_, [unfoldingWord](https://unfoldingword.org/utw), 2022, which is licensed under a [CC BY-SA 4.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode.en).

This markdown version (created `2025-10-16`) is provided under the same license.



--------------------------------

## Subject (id: 27127)

subject, be subject to, subjected, subjecting, subjection
=========================================================

Facts:
------

A person is the “subject” of another person if the second person rules over and/or leads the first. A person is the “subject” of a belief system or teaching if they believe it and therefore live according to it. To “be subject to” is to “obey” or to “submit to the authority of.”

* The phrase “put in subjection to” refers to causing people to be under the authority of a leader or ruler.
* Depending on context, the word “subjected” can be translated as “submitted” or “under the authority of.”
* Sometimes the term “subject” is used to refer to being the topic or focus of something, such as in, “you will be the subject of ridicule.”
* The phrase “be subject to” means the same as “be submissive to” or “submit to.”
* The phrase “were subject to tribute” means the same as “were forced to pay tribute” or “were forced to give tribute.”
* To “subject” someone or something to a particular experience means to cause that person to experience something negative, such as pain.
* The phrase “subject to weakness” in Hebrews 5:2 and the phrases “was subjected” and “having subjected it” in Romans 8:20 all refer to being caused to experience something negative. The phrase in Hebrews 5:2 can be translated as “encompassed with weakness”. The phrases in Romans 8:20 can be translated as “was placed under” and “having place it under” or as “was forced to experience” and “having forced it to experience this”.

(See also: submit)

Bible References:
-----------------

Word Data:
----------

* **Associated Passages:** LUK 2:51; LUK 10:17; LUK 10:20; ROM 8:7; ROM 8:20; ROM 13:1; ROM 13:5; 1CO 14:32; 1CO 15:27; 1CO 15:28; 1CO 16:16; EPH 5:21; EPH 5:24; PHP 3:21; TIT 2:5; TIT 2:9; TIT 3:1; HEB 2:5; HEB 2:8; 1PE 2:13; 1PE 2:18; 1PE 3:5; 1PE 3:22
* **Associated Articles:** Submit (ID: `27128@UWTranslationWords`)

