# Translation Words (unfoldingWord)

## License Information

**Translation Words (unfoldingWord)** is based on and adapted from: _unfoldingWord® Translation Words_, [unfoldingWord](https://unfoldingword.org/utw), 2022, which is licensed under a [CC BY-SA 4.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode.en).

This markdown version (created `2025-10-16`) is provided under the same license.



--------------------------------

## Tent of Meeting (id: 27147)

tent of meeting
===============

Facts:
------

The term “tent of meeting” refers to a tent which was a temporary place where God met with Moses before the tabernacle was built.

* The tent of meeting was set up outside the camp of the Israelites.
* When Moses went into the tent of meeting to meet with God, a pillar of cloud would stand at the entrance to the tent as a sign of God’s presence there.
* After the Israelites built the tabernacle, the temporary tent was no longer needed and the term “tent of meeting” was sometimes used to refer to the tabernacle.

(See also: Israel, Moses, pillar, tabernacle, tent)

Bible References:
-----------------

* [1 Kings 2:28–29](https://ref.ly/1Kgs2:28-1Kgs2:29)
* [Joshua 19:51](https://ref.ly/Josh19:51)
* [Leviticus 1:2](https://ref.ly/Lev1:2)
* [Numbers 4:31–32](https://ref.ly/Num4:31-Num4:32)

Examples from the Bible stories:
--------------------------------

* **13:8** God gave the Israelites a detailed description of a tent he wanted them to make. It was called the **Tent of Meeting**, and it had two rooms, separated by a large curtain.
* **13:9** Anyone who disobeyed God’s law could bring an animal to the altar in front of the **Tent of Meeting** as a sacrifice to God.
* **14:8** God was very angry and came to the **Tent of Meeting**.
* **18:2** Instead of at the **Tent of Meeting**, people now worshiped God and offered sacrifices to him at the Temple.

Word Data:
----------

* Strong’s: H0168, H4150

* **Associated Passages:** EXO 28:43; EXO 29:4; EXO 29:10; EXO 29:11; EXO 29:30; EXO 29:32; EXO 29:42; EXO 29:44; EXO 30:16; EXO 30:18; EXO 30:20; EXO 30:36; EXO 31:7; EXO 40:30; LEV 1:2; JOS 19:51; 1KI 2:28–1KI 2:29; NUM 4:31–NUM 4:32
* **Associated Articles:** Israel (ID: `26737@UWTranslationWords`); Moses (ID: `26889@UWTranslationWords`); Pillar (ID: `26963@UWTranslationWords`); Tabernacle (ID: `27136@UWTranslationWords`); Tent (ID: `27145@UWTranslationWords`)

