# Translation Words (unfoldingWord)

## License Information

**Translation Words (unfoldingWord)** is based on and adapted from: _unfoldingWord® Translation Words_, [unfoldingWord](https://unfoldingword.org/utw), 2022, which is licensed under a [CC BY-SA 4.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode.en).

This markdown version (created `2025-10-16`) is provided under the same license.



--------------------------------

## Shepherd (id: 27084)

shepherd, herder, pastor
========================

Definition:
-----------

A “shepherd” is a person who takes care of sheep. In the Old Testament, this word can also refer to a “herder” who takes care of other kinds of domestic livestock such as goats or cattle.

* As a verb, the term “shepherd” means to lead sheep (or other livestock) to places with good food and water, protect them from wild animals, keep them from getting lost and other duties necessary to keep livestock alive and healthy.
* In the Bible, this term is often used figuratively to refer to taking care of the needs of people (not only animals), both physical and spiritual.
* In the Old Testament, God was called the “shepherd” of his people because he took care of them. In the New Testament, Jesus called himself the “good shepherd,” and in other places Jesus is called the “great shepherd” of the Church.
* The term “shepherd” is also used in the New Testament to refer to a person who is a spiritual leader over other believers. The word translated as “pastor” is the same word that is translated as “shepherd.” Elders and overseers are also called shepherds.

Translation Suggestions
-----------------------

* The noun “shepherd” can be translated as “person who takes care of sheep” or “sheep tender” or “sheep caregiver.”
* When referring to someone who cares for livestock other than sheep, the term can be translated as “herder,” “tender of livestock” or “person who takes care of livestock.”
* When used as a verb, the term “shepherd” could be translated as “take care of sheep” or “watch over sheep.”
* In some contexts, the term “shepherd” could be translated as “leader” or “guide” or “caregiver.”
* When used figuratively, the noun “shepherd” could be translated in different ways, including “spiritual shepherd” or “spiritual leader” or “one who is like a shepherd” or “one who cares for his people like a shepherd cares for his sheep” or “one who leads his people like a shepherd guides his sheep” or “one who takes care of God’s sheep.”
* When used figuratively, the verb “shepherd” could be translated as to “take care of” or to “spiritually nourish” or to “guide and teach” or to “lead and take care of (like a shepherd cares for sheep).”

(See also: sheep, livestock, pastor)

Bible References:
-----------------

* [Genesis 13:7](https://ref.ly/Gen13:7)
* [Genesis 49:24](https://ref.ly/Gen49:24)
* [Luke 2:9](https://ref.ly/Luke2:9)
* [Mark 6:34](https://ref.ly/Mark6:34)
* [Mark 14:26–27](https://ref.ly/Mark14:26-Mark14:27)
* [Matthew 2:6](https://ref.ly/Matt2:6)
* [Matthew 9:36](https://ref.ly/Matt9:36)
* [Matthew 25:32](https://ref.ly/Matt25:32)
* [Matthew 26:31](https://ref.ly/Matt26:31)

Examples from the Bible stories:
--------------------------------

* **9:11** Moses became a **shepherd** in the wilderness far away from Egypt.to
* **17:2** David was a **shepherd** from the town of Bethlehem. At different times while he was watching his father’s sheep, David had killed both a lion and a bear that had attacked the sheep.
* **23:6** That night, there were some **shepherds** in a nearby field guarding their flocks.
* **23:8** The **shepherds** soon arrived at the place where Jesus was and they found him lying in a feeding trough, just as the angel had told them.
* **30:3** To Jesus, these people were like sheep without a **shepherd**.

Word Data:
----------

* Strong’s: H6629, H7462, H7469, H7473, G07500, G41650, G41660

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 4:2; GEN 13:7; GEN 13:8; GEN 26:20; GEN 29:7; GEN 29:9; GEN 30:31; GEN 30:36; GEN 37:2; GEN 37:12; GEN 37:13; GEN 37:16; GEN 46:32; GEN 47:3; GEN 48:15; GEN 49:24; EXO 2:17; EXO 2:19; EXO 3:1; PRO 10:21; MAT 2:6; MAT 9:36; MAT 25:32; MAT 26:31; MRK 6:34; MRK 14:27; LUK 2:8; LUK 2:9; LUK 2:15; LUK 2:18; LUK 2:20; LUK 17:7; JHN 10:2; JHN 10:11; JHN 10:12; JHN 10:14; JHN 10:16; JHN 21:16; ACT 20:28; 1CO 9:7; HEB 13:20; 1PE 2:25; 1PE 5:2; 1PE 5:4; JUD 1:12; REV 2:27; REV 7:17; REV 12:5; REV 19:15; MRK 14:26–MRK 14:27
* **Associated Articles:** Livestock (ID: `26828@UWTranslationWords`); Sheep (ID: `27082@UWTranslationWords`)

