# Translation Words (unfoldingWord)

## License Information

**Translation Words (unfoldingWord)** is based on and adapted from: _unfoldingWord® Translation Words_, [unfoldingWord](https://unfoldingword.org/utw), 2022, which is licensed under a [CC BY-SA 4.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode.en).

This markdown version (created `2025-10-16`) is provided under the same license.



--------------------------------

## Silas (id: 27094)

Silas, Silvanus
===============

Facts:
------

Silas was a leader among the believers in Jerusalem.

* The elders of the church in Jerusalem appointed Silas to go with Paul and Barnabas to take a letter to the city of Antioch.
* Silas later traveled with Paul to other cities to teach people about Jesus.
* Paul and Silas were put in jail in the city of Philippi. They sang praises to God while they were there and God released them from the jail. The jailer became a Christian as a result of their testimony.

(Translation suggestions: How to Translate Names)

(See also: Antioch, Barnabas, Jerusalem, Paul, Philippi, prison, testimony)

Bible References:
-----------------

* [1 Peter 5:12](https://ref.ly/1Pet5:12)
* [1 Thessalonians 1:1](https://ref.ly/1Thess1:1)
* [2 Thessalonians 1:1](https://ref.ly/2Thess1:1)
* [Acts 15:22](https://ref.ly/Acts15:22)

Examples from the Bible stories:
--------------------------------

* **47:1** One day, Paul and his friend **Silas** went to the town of Philippi to proclaim the good news about Jesus.
* **47:2** She (Lydia) invited Paul and **Silas** to stay at her house, so they stayed with her and her family.
* **47:3** Paul and **Silas** often met with people at the place of prayer.
* **47:7** So the owners of the slave girl took Paul and **Silas** to the Roman authorities, who beat them and threw them into jail.
* **47:8** They put Paul and **Silas** in the most secure part of the prison and even locked up their feet.
* **47:11** The jailer trembled as he came to Paul and **Silas** and asked, “What must I do to be saved?”
* **47:13** The next day the leaders of the city released Paul and **Silas** from prison and asked them to leave Philippi. Paul and **Silas** visited Lydia and some other friends and then left the city.

Word Data:
----------

* Strong’s: G46090, G46100

* **Associated Passages:** ACT 15:22; ACT 15:27; ACT 15:32; ACT 15:40; ACT 16:19; ACT 16:25; ACT 16:29; ACT 17:4; ACT 17:10; ACT 17:14; ACT 17:15; ACT 18:5; 1TH 1:1; 2TH 1:1; 1PE 5:12
* **Associated Articles:** Antioch (ID: `26322@UWTranslationWords`); Barnabas (ID: `26364@UWTranslationWords`); Jerusalem (ID: `26756@UWTranslationWords`); Paul (ID: `26937@UWTranslationWords`); Philippi (ID: `26955@UWTranslationWords`); Testimony (ID: `27151@UWTranslationWords`)

