# Translation Words (unfoldingWord)

## License Information

**Translation Words (unfoldingWord)** is based on and adapted from: _unfoldingWord® Translation Words_, [unfoldingWord](https://unfoldingword.org/utw), 2022, which is licensed under a [CC BY-SA 4.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode.en).

This markdown version (created `2025-10-16`) is provided under the same license.



--------------------------------

## Well (id: 27202)

cistern, well
=============

Definition:
-----------

The terms “well” and “cistern” refer to two different kinds of sources for water in Bible times.

* A well is a deep hole dug into the ground so that underground water can flow into it.
* A cistern is a deep hole dug into rock that was used as a holding tank for collecting rain water.
* Cisterns were usually dug into rock and sealed with plaster to keep the water in. A “broken cistern” happened when the plaster became cracked so that the water leaked out.
* Cisterns were often located in the courtyard area of people’s homes to catch the rainwater that would run off the roof.
* Wells were often located where they could be accessed by several families or a whole community.
* Because water was very important for both people and livestock, the right to use a well was often a cause of strife and conflict.
* Both wells and cisterns were usually covered with a large stone to prevent anything falling in it. Often there was a rope with a bucket or pot attached to it to bring the water up to the surface.
* Sometimes a dry cistern was used as a place to imprison someone, such as happened to Joseph and Jeremiah.

Translation Suggestions:
------------------------

* Ways to translate “well” could include “deep water hole” or “deep hole for spring water” or “deep hole for drawing water.”
* The term “cistern” could be translated as “stone water pit” or “deep and narrow pit for water” or “underground tank for holding water.”
* These terms are similar in meaning. The main difference is that a well continually receives water from underground springs, whereas a cistern is a holding tank for water that usually comes from rain.

(See also: Jeremiah, prison, strife)

Bible References:
-----------------

* [1 Chronicles 11:17](https://ref.ly/1Chr11:17)
* [2 Samuel 17:17–18](https://ref.ly/2Sam17:17-2Sam17:18)
* [Genesis 16:14](https://ref.ly/Gen16:14)
* [Luke 14:4–6](https://ref.ly/Luke14:4-Luke14:6)
* [Numbers 20:17](https://ref.ly/Num20:17)

Word Data:
----------

* Strong’s: H0875, H0883, H0953, H1360, H4599, H4726, H4841, G40770, G54210

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 16:14; GEN 21:19; GEN 21:25; GEN 21:30; GEN 24:11; GEN 24:20; GEN 26:15; GEN 26:18; GEN 26:19; GEN 26:20; GEN 26:21; GEN 26:25; GEN 26:32; GEN 29:2; GEN 29:3; GEN 29:8; GEN 29:10; GEN 37:20; GEN 37:22; GEN 37:24; GEN 37:28; GEN 37:29; NUM 20:17; 1CH 11:17; PRO 5:15; PRO 23:27; LUK 14:5; JHN 4:6; JHN 4:11; JHN 4:12; 2SA 17:17–2SA 17:18; LUK 14:4–LUK 14:6
* **Associated Articles:** Jeremiah (ID: `26753@UWTranslationWords`); Strife (ID: `27122@UWTranslationWords`)

