# Translation Words (unfoldingWord)

## License Information

**Translation Words (unfoldingWord)** is based on and adapted from: _unfoldingWord® Translation Words_, [unfoldingWord](https://unfoldingword.org/utw), 2022, which is licensed under a [CC BY-SA 4.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode.en).

This markdown version (created `2025-10-16`) is provided under the same license.



--------------------------------

## Wise Men (id: 27209)

wise men, advisor
=================

Definition:
-----------

The term “wise men” simply means people who are wise. In the Bible, however, the term “wise men” often refers to men with unusual knowledge and abilities who served in a king’s royal court as advisors to the king or other high officials.

### Old Testament

* Sometimes the term “wise men” is explained in the text as “prudent men” or “men with understanding.” This refers to men who act wisely and righteously because they obey God.
* The “wise men” who served pharaohs or other kings were often scholars who studied the stars, especially looking for special meanings for the patterns that the stars made in their positions in the sky. Sometimes “wise men” also practiced divination of performed acts of magic, probably by the power of evil spirits.
* Often wise men were expected to explain the meanings of dreams. For example, King Nebuchadnezzar demanded that his wise men describe his dreams and tell him what they meant, but none of them was able to do this, except Daniel who had received this knowledge from God.

### New Testament

* The group of men who came from eastern regions to worship Jesus were called “magi,” which is often translated as “wise men,” since this probably refers to scholars who served a ruler of an eastern country.

Translation Suggestions:
------------------------

* Depending on the context, the term “wise men” could be translated using the term “wise” or with a phrase such as “gifted men” or “educated men” or some other term that refers to men who have an important job working for a ruler.
* When the term “wise men” simply means people who are wise, the word “wise” should be translated in the same or similar way to how it is translated elsewhere in the Bible.

(See also: Babylon, Daniel, divination, magic, Nebuchadnezzar, ruler, wise)

Bible References:
-----------------

* [1 Chronicles 27:32–34](https://ref.ly/1Chr27:32-1Chr27:34)
* [Daniel 2:1–2](https://ref.ly/Dan2:1-Dan2:2)
* [Daniel 2:10–11](https://ref.ly/Dan2:10-Dan2:11)

Word Data:
----------

* Strong’s: H2445, H2450, H3778, H3779, G46800

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 41:8; EXO 7:11; EXO 31:6; JOB 5:13; JOB 9:4; JOB 15:18; JOB 17:10; JOB 34:2; JOB 34:34; JOB 37:24; OBA 1:8; DAN 2:10–DAN 2:11; 1CH 27:32–1CH 27:34; DAN 2:1–DAN 2:2
* **Associated Articles:** Babylon (ID: `26358@UWTranslationWords`); Daniel (ID: `26500@UWTranslationWords`); Divination (ID: `26532@UWTranslationWords`); Magic (ID: `26845@UWTranslationWords`); Nebuchadnezzar (ID: `26905@UWTranslationWords`); Ruler (ID: `27042@UWTranslationWords`); Wise (ID: `27208@UWTranslationWords`)

